Juven Isle Playtest
27 Sep 2024 - Anaheim CA

Nick M, Tyler M, Dan X, Gary K


Testing:
Standard rules to get reacquainted with the game.
	3 cards in hand
	Play card, draw cards equal to the score of the placement
No automatic card draw at end of turn.
Every card scores at least one card (to replenish hand).
When you score, you can look at the cards and decide which one to keep and then score the rest


Comments:
Too many pirates in first game?
	There are only 8 in the deck, so it may have just been chance
Ports are significantly better than resources.
Pirates interesting for scoring.
Resources still feel odd (scoring against pirates)
	Longstanding problem

Nick suggestion:
	Since you're looking at the cards for scoring, why not make that an interesting puzzle.
	Cards you score are investments.
	Score your investments at end of game (instead of each score card being equal to 1)

Remove pirate cards from game.

For scoring:
Each resource is worth the # resources that can reach a matching port.

Tested giving each player a pirate that they can place on the map to block.
When you place the pirate, you increase your hand size.

Place pirate on path crossing card edge.
	Cuts off path for everyone else
	Acts as a wildcard port for the player who placed the pirate

Place pirates on an existing port
	Port become wild (matches all resources), but only for that player
	Other players can't use this port for scoring

Both of these felt good thematically
	but didn't quite work as well as hoped

In both cases, having the pirate meant that different players scores the resources differently
	This was by design
	But it made scoring more challenging:
		Coconuts are 4 for everyone, but 6 for me
	The challenge of tracing the paths is fun when doing it one at a time
	Overwhelming when you have to do it for all your resources at the same time.
	Better to have the value the same since then the game focuses on your investment	

Having the pirate increase the hand size:
	Interesting tradeoff between placing pirate early vs holding it until the map is more mature
	Having the hand size change was slightly confusing
		because you couldn't just remember, discard down to 3
		An issue because you add the score cards to your hand before discarding down to your limit
	Worth considering allowing hand size to grow

Do ports count as resources when scoring?
	pros and cons
	Would be easier to update the graphics on the card to include more resources
		and then make ports not score as resources

Cards with multiple resources
	Which one to score?
	If you score all of them, they you definitely place that in your score pile
		Which is less good for the map development
	Tested: only scoring the lowest scoring resource
		Better to not have different resources on the card to avoid this
Should only have 1 resource per card to simplify scoring
		
More resources can be added to the cards
	Put multiples of the same resources when there are split paths
	Only a single resource type per card to simplify endgame scoring.

Too many ports?
	But ports mark the transition between land and sea
	Would be odd to have that transition without a port
	
Tyler:
Pass-through ports
	ports that have no resource and don't block resources connecting to matching port
	
Number of resources:
	Earlier games had 8 resources. Now reduced to 6

Nick:
Should be reduced further to make it easier to invest
Down to 5: 2 land, 2 sea and 1 hybrid
	Turtle is the obvious hybrid (land/sea) resource


For next playtest:

Single resource on each card (perhaps duplicated)

Reduce to 5 resources:
	Water: Fish, Squid
	Land: Coconut, Banana
	Hybrid: Turtle

No pirates

Make some port "pass-through"

Decide what should happens if you cannot place a card on the map
	Rare, but need a solution that doesn't reward people for churning their hand
